---
title: Email
subtitle: How to avoid avoidance
date: 2019-10-30
tags: [ADHD]
---

A recent tweet from [@ADHDscientist](https://twitter.com/ADHDscientist) reminded me of the problems I've had with keeping up with my emails. 

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">I struggle with email. Badly. My inbox is full of unreplied emails, many of them urgent and important and sitting there since months. I see them, but don’t get to reply, paralysed by guilt, inability to prioritise and overwhelm. What are your tricks to handle email <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/teamADHD?src=hash&amp;ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">#teamADHD</a>?</p>&mdash; ADHD Scientist (@ADHDscientist) <a href="https://twitter.com/ADHDscientist/status/1189274763321057280?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">October 29, 2019</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

A little while ago I got pretty seriously chewed out by my postdoc adviser because of it. I've gotten a little better since then, but I still mess up sometimes. Just today I realized that I never followed up on an email from about three months ago, so I never finished the process of setting up a computing account at another university, so I can't access the data I need to do an analysis.<sup>1</sup>

Keeping up with email is one of the many everyday tasks that involves planning, organization, and prioritization, which are *the* executive functions impaired by ADHD.<sup>2</sup> So to answer [@ADHDscientist](https://twitter.com/ADHDscientist)'s question, how do I manage to keep up with it enough to be a functioning adult with a job?

## Anything > Nothing
This is what I have to keep reminding myself. Even if it's the absolute minimum possible response to the absolute lowest priority email (that needs a response at all) that's still better than no response. 

I'm so terrible at prioritizing that it's better if I just don't. The really urgent stuff will be self-evident.<sup>3</sup> For everything else, the order of operations doesn't really matter.

This applies to pretty much any task, not just emails.

## Clearing My Inbox
### There are three categories:
1. Needs a response or follow-up.
2. Keep, no follow-up.
3. Delete.

That's it. Any more than that is overthinking it. If there's any doubt, if I find myself pausing to think about it, I err on the side of "keep and follow-up." I do sort many of the keepers into folders based on subject. But that's very low priority. These three categories are the important ones.
### Move quickly.
Flag the important ones (including the "maybes"), delete the clearly unimportant ones, and move on. Skip any that actually need to be read and circle back to them later. 

It's like the old test-taking strategy: Answer the easy questions first. If you find yourself pausing for more than a few seconds, skip ahead and see if there are any easy ones left. Save the hardest for last.

### Don't pay too much attention. 
Do it while in a meeting, listening to a talk, standing in line, that sort of thing. Reading emails is **boring**, but that initial sort doesn't require much attention. It can be a good minor distraction during, say, an interminable Zoom meeting that can help me focus on both better. And it helps me avoid overthinking it.

## Responding
This is the really hard part. Composing an email involves a lot of micro-decisions: how to phrase the salutation, what level of formality to use, what topics to address in this particular email, how to keep it short so you aren't rambling again, how to explain to your adviser that you haven't gotten anything done this week (again) without feeling like a complete failure. It can be extremely stressful. But responding to emails is unavoidable, so I've had to figure out a few tricks (aka. coping mechanisms) for getting it done.
### 1. Don't email. 
If possible (and appropriate), talk in person, message them on Slack, or use some other real-time(-ish) form of communication.
### 2. Talk it out.
Think about what you would say if you were talking to them in person. Actually say it out loud, if you're somewhere that it won't annoy other people. It's often easier for me to organize my thoughts verbally than in writing.
### 3. Junk draft.
Open an editor other than your email client (Word, Notepad, actual paper) and *don't* draft. Instead, just start jotting down ideas. For some reason, telling myself, "I'm not composing the email, I'm just scribbling out some of the stuff I might say," removes a lot of the barriers to starting. I think it's because it lets me bypass a lot of the minor decisions I can get hung-up on and get straight to the content.

Of course, this all sounds great. The hard part is actually *doing* it. After all, I have ADHD. I'm not going to remember to do all of these things every time I have to write an email! But, again, anything > nothing. Remembering to do even one or two of these things helps a lot. And the more I do them, the more they become habits that I don't have to remember.


---

<sup>1</sup>I finished the process today, so hopefully I'll have access in the next day or two.

<sup>2</sup>Even worse, *planning* (making a to-do list, keeping a calendar) is a task that involves planning, organization, and prioritization. That particular hell deserves its own post.

<sup>3</sup>Like most people with ADHD, "extremely urgent" is the one situation I handle really well. 