---
title: 30-30-30 Log
subtitle: A single page for logging my "30-30-30" fitness plan progress.
date: 2019-01-15
tags: [30-30-30, programming]
---

This is a page I'm setting up for logging and displaying my progress on my "30-30-30" fitness plan. I plan to update it regularly. 

## Exercise Data

<table style="width:100%;overflow:auto;" id="runtable"></table>

## Calorie Data

<table style="width:100%;overflow:auto;" id="caltable"></table>

## Comments
### 1/24/2019:
I've been playing around with the source spreadsheet and I broke the display. I've fixed it now.

About two weeks ago, I hit my 10-minute mile goal on a treadmill. It's much easier for me to run fast on a treadmill, so I'm not going to consider the goal met until I've done it on a track/outside. I can't try that any time soon since it's January in northern Illinois, and it's supposed to stay below freezing for at least the next week (the high next Wednesday is supposed to be -9^o F), and I don't have access to an indoor track. Hopefully it will be above freezing and clear for at least once or twice in the next 6 weeks.

Based on the 2.5 weeks of data I have so far, my daily weight loss was most strongly correlated with the log of my calories in minus calories burned (according to Fitbit), but it's not a very strong correlation ($$R^2 = 0.268$$, $$N = 17$$). Also, it looks like Fitbit overestimates my earned calories by about 600. According to MyFitnessPal, to lose one pound per week, I get 1730 calories per day plus however much Fitbit gives me, but according to the data (so far) I should be eating about 1100-1150 plus however much I earn. I've been averaging about 800-900 calories earned per day, so that puts me in the 1900-2000 calorie range most days, which is what I estimated my goal to be by eye. All that to say, it looks like I should aim for my "calories left" to be around 600 at the end of each day.

Yesterday I was crazy hungry most of the day, even though I was still eating at roughly my typical rate since I started tracking. It's probably because I had to shovel my driveway before I left for work, which was before I had a chance to eat any breakfast, so I was at a bigger in-burned deficit than usual most of the day. Then, last night a bunch of people from MicroBooNE went out to a local brewery (there's a collaboration meeting this week), so I had a big pub cheeseburger and a few beers, and ended up having over 4,000 calories total. I think the reason why I had trouble losing weight in previous attempts is that I would just not track at those times, and give up shortly afterwords.

This past Sunday, we had a D&D session, and we had a bunch of snack foods and dips. I still haven't figured out how to track that kind of stuff. Even worse are *hors d'oeuvres* at receptions and such. As far as I can tell, my only options are 1. don't eat any of it, 2. don't track, 3. spend most of the party (or whatever) trying to figure out what exactly is in each item, making (very rough) guesses at how much is in each bite, and taking notes every time I dip a chip. So that's why I didn't track on Sunday.

### 1/15/2019:
I've figured out how to pull data into this page straight from a Google spreadsheet! So these tables will be updated automatically when I enter data there. There's still a bunch of over-analysis I want to do, so my next step is to figure out how to get that working. I'm not sure how I'm going to do that. It will have to either be by coding it in javascript, doing it in Google Sheets and pulling it over, or getting some code in another language (python or R, probably) running within the page (if that's possible).
  
<script>
  function displayContent(json) {
    var runstring = "<tr><th>Date</th><th>Run Time</th><th>Distance (km)</th><th>Speed (km/h)</th><th>Steps</th></tr>";  
    var calstring = "<tr><th>Date</th><th>Calories In</th><th>Calories Earned</th><th>Calories In Minus Earned</th><th>Weight</th></tr>";
    var len = json.feed.entry.length;
    for (var i=0; i<len; i++) {
      var rundate = json.feed.entry[i].gsx$date.$t;
      var runtime = json.feed.entry[i].gsx$time.$t;
      var rundist = json.feed.entry[i].gsx$distancekm.$t;
      var runspeed = json.feed.entry[i].gsx$avgspeedkmh.$t;
      var steps = json.feed.entry[i].gsx$steps.$t;
      var calin = json.feed.entry[i].gsx$caloriesin.$t;
      var calearned = json.feed.entry[i].gsx$caloriesearned.$t;
      var weight = json.feed.entry[i].gsx$weightlbs.$t;
      var inminusearned = json.feed.entry[i].gsx$intakeminusearned.$t;
      runstring += "<tr><td nowrap>" + rundate + "</td><td>" + runtime + "</td><td>" + rundist + "</td><td>" + runspeed + "</td><td>" + steps + "</td></tr>";
      calstring += "<tr><td nowrap>" + rundate + "</td><td>" + calin + "</td><td>" + calearned + "</td><td>" + inminusearned + "</td><td>" + weight + "</td></tr>";
    }
    //runstring += "</table>";
    //calstring += "</table>";
    document.getElementById("runtable").innerHTML = runstring;
    document.getElementById("caltable").innerHTML = calstring;
  }   
</script>
<script src="https://spreadsheets.google.com/feeds/list/1ja2C-UuzQo4i_OrBZe-91Kifm3zWd9pg16xmLlN0Wgs/od6/public/values?alt=json-in-script&amp;callback=displayContent" type="text/javascript"></script>
