---
title: 30-30-30
# subtitle: New plan for weight loss.
date: 2019-01-08
tags: [30-30-30]
---

I've been trying off-and-on (mostly off) for years to change my exercise and eating habits. I've been pretty careless, most of my life, with my eating habits. As a result, my weight has gradually crept up a few pounds per year to the point where I'm now over 200 lbs. For someone who's only 5'7", that's pretty high. According to the BMI scale, I'm supposed to be under 160. I've tried a few times to lose weight, but (like lots of things I try) I'd do it for a few weeks before losing focus and dropping it.

While I haven't had much luck losing weight, I have managed, over the last two or three years, to get into the habit of running regularly. Last year, my wife and I ran in a few 5k's. I had never run in any before. I was surprised by how quickly I improved when I really started running on a regular basis. My best time was 32:29. That got me started thinking, "I bet if I keep working on it, I could get under 30:00." Then I started thinking, "I bet it would be a lot easier if I weren't carrying so much extra weight." So, I came up with a plan.

## The 30-30-30 Goals
I decided to set three goals for myself:
1. Lose 30 pounds.
2. Run a 5k in under 30 minutes.
3. Achieve both in 30 weeks.

I like this plan because:
- It's simple (as in uncomplicated, not easy).
- It's clear.
- It's finite &mdash; thirty weeks is about seven months.
- It's got a pithy name that I feel clever for coming up with.

# Monday, January 7 is Day 1.
I meant to write this post before yesterday, but as with most things, I procrastinated on it.

## The Plan
Here's what I'm planning to do to actually accomplish this:

### 1. Get my 10,000 steps every day.
I already do this most days. I'm not going to try to make myself run every single day. That probably wouldn't be sustainable. But most days I will probably get my steps by doing at least a short run. Especially since I usually only get about 3,000 steps from my regular daily routine. I may decide to up my step goal later, but for now I'm going with the standard 10,000.

### 2. Track my calories every day.
The most important thing, at least at first, is that I establish a habit of recording absolutely everything I eat. Even if I go over, I need to be honest and consistent about it.

### 3. Ramp into it.
I started tracking on Tuesday, January 2nd, but I was only tracking. I set my Calorie goal at the "maintain" level (according to MyFitnessPal), and I didn't worry about whether or not I stayed under that level. This is the first week that I'm going to try to keep myself under the limit, starting at 2000 Calories, but it will probably take a few weeks to find the level where I'm averaging just over a pound per week lost.

I'm also going to set two mini-goals for myself: 10-10-10 and 20-20-20. That is, lose 10 pounds and run a 10-minute mile (a slightly slower pace than a 30 minute 5k) in 10 weeks. If I make that, then move on to losing 20 pounds and run two miles in 20 minutes by week 20. 

### 4. Share my progress.
I need to be accountable to someone other than myself, or else I'm going to abandon this plan in about 2-3 weeks. So, I'm posting my progress here. If you are actually paying attention to my progress<sup>1</sup>, and you notice I'm starting to miss updates, then bug me about it!

I don't know how often I'll make a new post on this site about my 30-30-30 progress, but this spreadsheet is where I'm logging everything, and that should be updated every day.

<iframe src="https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/e/2PACX-1vSgxbumy-ygf8dOevllyLeUTYBX3P4iBUlw-rdRr-CS6iw6e0BFpOaavcstqAPzIsY39_Txnv8iVXns/pubhtml?gid=0&amp;single=true&amp;widget=true&amp;headers=false" style="border:none;width:100%"></iframe>

I typically weigh in first thing in the morning. I usually go running in the evening. And I usually don't enter my steps until the next day, so that I can get every single step counted up until I take off my Fitbit before bed.

As a side note, I also plan to use this as an opportunity to play with learning more web coding and such. I want to figure out how to grab my data from Fitbit and MyFitnessPal via APIs and have them automatically logged on this spreadsheet. And maybe set up some better displays and analytics on a page here.

---

<sup>1</sup>I'm assuming the only people who might actually follow my progress are my parents, my wife, and maybe my relatives in the "fitness check-in group" we talked about starting around Christmas.
